develop: refactor Python mysqlclient tutorial (#14544)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-sample-application-python-mysqlclient.md

Reviewer: preview: https://pingcap-docs-website-scaffold-git-preview-ping-de76a4-ran-huang.vercel.app/tidb/dev/dev-guide-sample-application-python-mysqlclient

Reviewer 2: @ran-huang please redeploy the preview environment, there are some some changes

2. Ensure the configurations in the confirmation window match your operating environment.

    - **Endpoint Type** is set to **Public**
    - **Connect With** is set to **General**
    - Operating System matches your environment.

    <Tip>If you are running in Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), switch to the corresponding Linux distribution.</Tip>

3. Click **Create password** to create a random password.

    <Tip>If you have created a password before, you can either use the original password or click **Reset password** to generate a new one.</Tip>

4. Run the following command to copy `.env.example` and rename it to `.env`:

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

5. Copy and paste the corresponding connection string into the `.env` file. Example result is as follows:

    ```dotenv
    TIDB_HOST='{gateway-region}.aws.tidbcloud.com'
    TIDB_PORT='4000'
    TIDB_USER='{prefix}.root'
    TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
    TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
    CA_PATH=''
    ```

    Be sure to replace the placeholders `{}` with the values obtained from the connection dialog.

>     TiDB Serverless requires a secure connection. Since the `ssl_mode` of mysqlclient defaults to `PREFERRED`, you don't need to manually specify `CA_PATH`. Just leave it empty. But if you have a special reason to specify `CA_PATH` manually, you can refer to the [TLS Connections to TiDB Serverless](/tidb-cloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-tier-clusters.md) to get the certificate paths for different operating systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <CustomContent platform="tidb">

    TiDB Serverless requires a secure connection. Since the `ssl_mode` of mysqlclient defaults to `PREFERRED`, you don't need to manually specify `CA_PATH`. Just leave it empty. But if you have a special reason to specify `CA_PATH` manually, you can refer to the [TLS Connections to TiDB Serverless](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-clusters) to get the certificate paths for different operating systems.

    </CustomContent>
    <CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">
    
    TiDB Serverless requires a secure connection. Since the `ssl_mode` of mysqlclient defaults to `PREFERRED`, you don't need to manually specify `CA_PATH`. Just leave it empty. But if you have a special reason to specify `CA_PATH` manually, you can refer to the [TLS Connections to TiDB Serverless](/tidb-cloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-tier-clusters.md) to get the certificate paths for different operating systems.

    </CustomContent>
```

---
title: Connect TiDB with mysqlclient

> summary: Learn how to connect TiDB using mysqlclient. And you can find sample code snippets that works with TiDB with mysqlclient.

Reviewer 3: The second person ("you") gives a conversational tone and speaks directly to the reader, but I am not sure if it should be used in the summary.

with TiDB and mysqlclient?

- Prepare your environment. 
- Connect to TiDB Serverless, TiDB Dedicated or TiDB Self-hosted using mysqlclient.
- Build and run your app. Optionally, you can find sample code snippets for basic CRUD operations. 

> **Note:**
> This tutorial works with TiDB Serverless, TiDB Dedicated and TiDB Self-hosted.

## Prerequisites

- [Python **3.10** or higher](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
- A TiDB cluster. If you don't have a TiDB cluster, you can create one as follows:
    - (Recommended) Follow [Creating a TiDB Serverless Cluster](/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md) to create your own TiDB Cloud cluster.
    - Follow [Deploy a Local Test TiDB Cluster](../quick-start-with-tidb.md#deploy-a-local-test-cluster) or [Deploy a Production TiDB Cluster](../production-deployment-using-tiup.md) to create a local cluster.

## Run sample app to connect to TiDB

This section demonstrates how to run the sample application code and connect to TiDB.

### Step 1: Clone the sample app repository

Run the following command in your terminal window to clone the sample code repository.

> ```bash

Author: What is our docs guidance here? I personally prefer to use bash for command line code blocks.

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: In English documents, we follow the Google document style guide: https://developers.google.com/style/code-syntax

There is no specific rule about whether to use `bash` or `shell`, `shell` is more general and was used in the original documentation.

## Step 2. Get the code
Run the following command in your terminal window to clone the sample code repository.

```shell
```bash
git clone https://github.com/pingcap-inc/tidb-example-python.git
```

The following uses mysqlclient 2.1.1 as an example. Drivers for Python are more convenient to use than other languages, but they do not shield the underlying implementation and require manual management of transactions. If there are not a lot of scenarios where SQL is required, it is recommended to use ORM, which can help reduce the coupling of your program.
### Step 2: Install dependencies (including mysqlclient)

```python
import uuid
from typing import List

import MySQLdb
from MySQLdb import Connection
from MySQLdb.cursors import Cursor

def get_connection(autocommit: bool = True) -> MySQLdb.Connection:
    return MySQLdb.connect(
        host="127.0.0.1",
        port=4000,
        user="root",
        password="",
        database="test",
        autocommit=autocommit
    )
Run the following commands to install required packages for the sample app.

```bash
cd tidb-example-python;
pip install -r requirement.txt
```

def create_player(cursor: Cursor, player: tuple) -> None:

>     cursor.execute("INSERT INTO player (id, coins, goods) VALUES (%s, %s, %s)", player)

Reviewer 3: Maybe using table name `players` is better than `player`:

- using `accounts` as table name in CockroachDB's sample code
- using `users` as table name in Planetscale's sample code
- using `movies` / `countries` as table names in Supabase's sample code

However, there are also examples of using singular nouns as table name:

- using `employee` as table name in the YugabyteDB sample code

> ### Step 3: Configure Connection Information

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Configure connection information
```

Please use a consistent capitalization style on subheadings.

>     cp .env.example .env

Reviewer 4: After you install the Git, which is mentioned in the **prerequisites** part, it will come with a component called Git Bash. `cp` command works on this component. We can not cover all things, otherwise, the document will be so redundant.

</div>
<div label="TiDB Dedicated">

> 1. In the TiDB Cloud, select your TiDB Dedicated cluster. Go to the **Overview** page, and click the **Connect** button in the upper right corner. Click **Allow Access from Anywhere** and then click **Download TiDB cluster CA** to download the certificate.

Reviewer 3: Too long for one step.

3. Copy and paste the corresponding connection string into the `.env` file. Example result is as follows:

    ```python
    TIDB_HOST='{host}.clusters.tidb-cloud.com'
    TIDB_PORT='4000'
    TIDB_USER='{username}'
    TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
    TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
    CA_PATH='{your-downloaded-ca-path}'
    ```

    Be sure to replace the placeholders `{}` with the values obtained from the **Connect** window, and configure `CA_PATH` with the certificate path downloaded in the previous step.

4. Save the `.env` file.

</div>
<div label="TiDB Self-hosted">

1. Run the following command to copy `.env.example` and rename it to `.env`:

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

2. Copy and paste the corresponding connection string into the `.env` file. Example result is as follows:

    ```python
    TIDB_HOST='{tidb_server_host}'
    TIDB_PORT='4000'
    TIDB_USER='root'
    TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
    TIDB_DB_NAME='test'

    ```

    Be sure to replace the placeholders `{}` with the values, and remove the `CA_PATH` line. If you are running TiDB locally, the default host address is `127.0.0.1`, and the password is empty.

3. Save the `.env` file.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

> ## Sample Code Snippets

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Sample code snippets
```

ditto

```

For more information, refer to [Update Data](./dev-guide-update-data.md).

### Delete Data

```python
with get_mysqlclient_connection(autocommit=True) as conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        player_id = "1"
        cursor.execute("DELETE FROM player WHERE id = %s", (player_id,))
```

For more information, refer to [Update Data](./dev-guide-delete-data.md).

## Useful Notes

- For complete code and how to run it, see the [tidb-example-python GitHub repository](https://github.com/pingcap-inc/tidb-example-python/tree/main).
- This Python driver is relatively low-level, so you will see a lot of SQL statements in the sample app. Unlike ORMs, there is no data object, and `mysqlclient` represents query objects with tuples. Although Python's driver is more convenient to use than those in other languages, due to its exposure to underlying implementations and the manual transaction management required, it is still recommended to use ORMs for programming unless there is a significant need for SQL. This can reduce the coupling of your app.
- For more on how to use `mysqlclient`, refer to the [mysqlclient official documentation](https://mysqlclient.readthedocs.io/).

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```

ditto

> - You can continue reading the developer documentation to get more knowledge about TiDB development, such as: [Insert Data](./dev-guide-insert-data.md), [Update Data](./dev-guide-update-data.md), [Delete Data](./dev-guide-delete-data.md), [Single Table Reading](./dev-guide-get-data-from-single-table.md), [Transactions](./dev-guide-transaction-overview.md), [SQL Performance Optimization](./dev-guide-optimize-sql-overview.md), etc.

Reviewer 4: We can not use the relative link like `./dev-guide-insert-data.md`. We need to use an absolute link like `/develop/dev-guide-insert-data.md` instead of it.

> - If you prefer to learn through courses, we also offer professional [TiDB Developer Courses](https://www.pingcap.com/education/), and provide [TiDB certifications](https://learn.pingcap.com/learner/certification-center) after the exam.

Reviewer 2: For english user, the link of `TiDB certifications` should be https://www.pingcap.com/education/certification/

   > **Tip:**
   > 
   > If you have created a password before, you can either use the original password or click **Reset password** to generate a new one.

5. Run the following command to copy `.env.example` and rename it to `.env`:

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

6. Copy and paste the corresponding connection string into the `.env` file. Example result is as follows:

    ```dotenv
    TIDB_HOST='{gateway-region}.aws.tidbcloud.com'
    TIDB_PORT='4000'
    TIDB_USER='{prefix}.root'
    TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
    TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
    CA_PATH=''
    ```

    Be sure to replace the placeholders `{}` with the values obtained from the connection dialog.

    TiDB Serverless requires a secure connection. Since the `ssl_mode` of mysqlclient defaults to `PREFERRED`, you don't need to manually specify `CA_PATH`. Just leave it empty. But if you have a special reason to specify `CA_PATH` manually, you can refer to the [TLS Connections to TiDB Serverless](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-clusters) to get the certificate paths for different operating systems.

7. Save the `.env` file.

</div>
<div label="TiDB Dedicated">

> 1. Navigate to the [Clusters](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page on TiDB Cloud's Web Console, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its **Overview** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [Clusters](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page on the TiDB Cloud console, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its **Overview** page.
```

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.

3. Click **Allow Access from Anywhere** and then click **Download TiDB cluster CA** to download the CA certificate.

>    > For more details about how to obtain the connection string, refer to [TiDB Dedicated Standard Connection](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/connect-via-standard-connection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For more details about how to obtain the connection string, refer to [TiDB Dedicated Standard Connection](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/connect-via-standard-connection).
```

---
title: Connect to TiDB with mysqlclient

> summary: Learn how to connect TiDB using mysqlclient. This tutorial gives Python sample code snippets that work with TiDB using mysqlclient.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to connect to TiDB using mysqlclient. This tutorial gives Python sample code snippets that work with TiDB using mysqlclient.
```

---

# Connect to TiDB with mysqlclient

TiDB is a MySQL-compatible database, and [mysqlclient](https://github.com/PyMySQL/mysqlclient) is a popular open-source driver for Python.

In this tutorial, you can learn how to use TiDB and mysqlclient to accomplish the following tasks:

- Set up your environment.
- Connect to your TiDB cluster using mysqlclient.
- Build and run your application. Optionally, you can find sample code snippets for basic CRUD operations.

> **Note:**
>
> This tutorial works with TiDB Serverless, TiDB Dedicated, and TiDB Self-Hosted.

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you need:

- [Python **3.10** or higher](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
- A TiDB cluster.

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

**If you don't have a TiDB cluster, you can create one as follows:**

> - (Recommended) Follow [Creating a TiDB Serverless Cluster](/develop/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md) to create your own TiDB Cloud cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- (Recommended) Follow [Creating a TiDB Serverless cluster](/develop/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md) to create your own TiDB Cloud cluster.
```

> - Follow [Deploy a Local Test TiDB Cluster](/quick-start-with-tidb.md#deploy-a-local-test-cluster) or [Deploy a Production TiDB Cluster](/production-deployment-using-tiup.md) to create a local cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Follow [Deploy a local test TiDB cluster](/quick-start-with-tidb.md#deploy-a-local-test-cluster) or [Deploy a production TiDB cluster](/production-deployment-using-tiup.md) to create a local cluster.
```

</CustomContent>
<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

**If you don't have a TiDB cluster, you can create one as follows:**

> - (Recommended) Follow [Creating a TiDB Serverless Cluster](/develop/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md) to create your own TiDB Cloud cluster.
> - Follow [Deploy a Local Test TiDB Cluster](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/quick-start-with-tidb#deploy-a-local-test-cluster) or [Deploy a Production TiDB Cluster](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/production-deployment-using-tiup) to create a local cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- (Recommended) Follow [Creating a TiDB Serverless cluster](/develop/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md) to create your own TiDB Cloud cluster.
- Follow [Deploy a local test TiDB cluster](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/quick-start-with-tidb#deploy-a-local-test-cluster) or [Deploy a production TiDB cluster](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/production-deployment-using-tiup) to create a local cluster.
```

</CustomContent>

> ## Run sample app to connect to TiDB

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Run the sample app to connect to TiDB
```

This section demonstrates how to run the sample application code and connect to TiDB.

### Step 1: Clone the sample app repository

Run the following command in your terminal window to clone the sample code repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-python-mysqlclient-quickstart.git
cd tidb-python-mysqlclient-quickstart;
```

### Step 2: Install dependencies

> Run the following commands to install the required packages (including `mysqlclient`) for the sample app:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Run the following command to install the required packages (including `mysqlclient`) for the sample app:
```

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If you encounter installation issues, refer to the [mysqlclient official documentation](https://github.com/PyMySQL/mysqlclient#install).

### Step 3: Configure connection information

Connect to your TiDB cluster depending on the TiDB deployment option you've selected.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="TiDB Serverless">

> 1. Navigate to the [Clusters](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.
```

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.

3. Ensure the configurations in the connection dialog match your operating environment.

    - **Endpoint Type** is set to `Public`
    - **Connect With** is set to `General`
    - **Operating System** matches your environment.

>    > **Tip:**
>    >
>    > If your program is running in Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), switch to the corresponding Linux distribution.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    > **Tip:**
    >
    > If your program is running in Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), switch to the corresponding Linux distribution.
```

4. Click **Create password** to create a random password.

>    > **Tip:**
>    > 
>    > If you have created a password before, you can either use the original password or click **Reset password** to generate a new one.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    > **Tip:**
    > 
    > If you have created a password before, you can either use the original password or click **Reset password** to generate a new one.
```

5. Run the following command to copy `.env.example` and rename it to `.env`:

    ```shell
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

6. Copy and paste the corresponding connection string into the `.env` file. The example result is as follows:

    ```dotenv
    TIDB_HOST='{gateway-region}.aws.tidbcloud.com'
    TIDB_PORT='4000'
    TIDB_USER='{prefix}.root'
    TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
    TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
    CA_PATH=''
    ```

    Be sure to replace the placeholders `{}` with the connection parameters obtained from the connection dialog.

>     TiDB Serverless requires a secure connection. Since the `ssl_mode` of mysqlclient defaults to `PREFERRED`, you don't need to manually specify `CA_PATH`. Just leave it empty. But if you have a special reason to specify `CA_PATH` manually, you can refer to the [TLS Connections to TiDB Serverless](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-clusters) to get the certificate paths for different operating systems.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    TiDB Serverless requires a secure connection. Since the `ssl_mode` of mysqlclient defaults to `PREFERRED`, you don't need to manually specify `CA_PATH`. Just leave it empty. But if you have a special reason to specify `CA_PATH` manually, you can refer to the [TLS connections to TiDB Serverless](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-clusters) to get the certificate paths for different operating systems.
```

https://developers.google.com/style/capitalization#capitalization-in-references-to-titles-and-headings

> In references to any title or heading from a document that follows this guide, use sentence case even if the title or heading itself uses title case. That way, when the title or heading is eventually updated to sentence case, the reference will match.

7. Save the `.env` file.

</div>
<div label="TiDB Dedicated">

> 1. Navigate to the [Clusters](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.
```

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.

3. Click **Allow Access from Anywhere** and then click **Download TiDB cluster CA** to download the CA certificate.

>     For more details about how to obtain the connection string, refer to [TiDB Dedicated Standard Connection](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/connect-via-standard-connection).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    For more details about how to obtain the connection string, refer to [TiDB Dedicated standard connection](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/connect-via-standard-connection).
```

    TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
    TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
    CA_PATH='{your-downloaded-ca-path}'
    ```

    Be sure to replace the placeholders `{}` with the connection parameters obtained from the connection dialog, and configure `CA_PATH` with the certificate path downloaded in the previous step.

6. Save the `.env` file.

</div>
<div label="TiDB Self-Hosted">

1. Run the following command to copy `.env.example` and rename it to `.env`:

    ```shell
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

2. Copy and paste the corresponding connection string into the `.env` file. The example result is as follows:

    ```dotenv
    TIDB_HOST='{tidb_server_host}'
    TIDB_PORT='4000'
    TIDB_USER='root'
    TIDB_PASSWORD='{password}'
    TIDB_DB_NAME='test'
    ```

    Be sure to replace the placeholders `{}` with the connection parameters, and remove the `CA_PATH` line. If you are running TiDB locally, the default host address is `127.0.0.1`, and the password is empty.

3. Save the `.env` file.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

### Step 4: Run the code and check the result

1. Execute the following command to run the sample code:

    ```shell
    python mysqlclient_example.py
    ```

> 2. Check the [Expected-Output.txt](https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-python-mysqlclient-quickstart/blob/main/Expected-Output.txt) to see if the output matches.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. Check the [`Expected-Output.txt`](https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-python-mysqlclient-quickstart/blob/main/Expected-Output.txt) to see if the output matches.
```

Reviewer 3: This is a file name, not a code snippet

For complete sample code and how to run it, check out the [tidb-samples/tidb-python-mysqlclient-quickstart](https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-python-mysqlclient-quickstart) repository.

### Connect to TiDB

```python
def get_mysqlclient_connection(autocommit:bool=True) -> MySQLdb.Connection:
    db_conf = {
        "host": ${tidb_host},
        "port": ${tidb_port},
        "user": ${tidb_user},
        "password": ${tidb_password},
        "database": ${tidb_db_name},
        "autocommit": autocommit
    }

    if ${ca_path}:
        db_conf["ssl_mode"] = "VERIFY_IDENTITY"
        db_conf["ssl"] = {"ca": ${ca_path}}

    return MySQLdb.connect(**db_conf)
```

When using this function, you need to replace `${tidb_host}`, `${tidb_port}`, `${tidb_user}`, `${tidb_password}`, `${tidb_db_name}` and `${ca_path}` with the actual values of your TiDB cluster.

### Insert data

```python
with get_mysqlclient_connection(autocommit=True) as conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        player = ("1", 1, 1)
        cursor.execute("INSERT INTO players (id, coins, goods) VALUES (%s, %s, %s)", player)
```

> For more information, refer to [Insert Data](/develop/dev-guide-insert-data.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Insert data](/develop/dev-guide-insert-data.md).
```

### Query data

```python
with get_mysqlclient_connection(autocommit=True) as conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        cur.execute("SELECT count(*) FROM players")
        print(cur.fetchone()[0])
```

> For more information, refer to [Query Data](/develop/dev-guide-get-data-from-single-table.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Query data](/develop/dev-guide-get-data-from-single-table.md).
```

### Update data

```python
with get_mysqlclient_connection(autocommit=True) as conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        player_id, amount, price="1", 10, 500
        cursor.execute(
            "UPDATE players SET goods = goods + %s, coins = coins + %s WHERE id = %s",
            (-amount, price, player_id),
        )
```

> For more information, refer to [Update Data](/develop/dev-guide-update-data.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Update data](/develop/dev-guide-update-data.md).
```

### Delete data

```python
with get_mysqlclient_connection(autocommit=True) as conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        player_id = "1"
        cursor.execute("DELETE FROM players WHERE id = %s", (player_id,))
```

> For more information, refer to [Delete Data](/develop/dev-guide-delete-data.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Update data](/develop/dev-guide-delete-data.md).
```

## Useful notes

### Using driver or ORM framework?

The Python driver provides low-level access to the database, but it requires the developers to:

- Manually establish and release database connections.
- Manually manage database transactions.
- Manually map data rows (represented as tuples in `mysqlclient`) to data objects.

> Unless you need to write complex SQL statements, it is recommended to use [ORM](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Object-relational_mapping) framework (like [SQLAlchemy](/develop/dev-guide-sample-application-python-sqlalchemy.md), [Peewee](/develop/dev-guide-sample-application-python-peewee.md) and Django ORM) for development. It can help you:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Unless you need to write complex SQL statements, it is recommended to use [ORM](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Object-relational_mapping) framework for development, such as [SQLAlchemy](/develop/dev-guide-sample-application-python-sqlalchemy.md), [Peewee](/develop/dev-guide-sample-application-python-peewee.md), and Django. It can help you:
```

- Reduce [boilerplate code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boilerplate_code) for managing connections and transactions.
- Manipulate data with data objects instead of a number of SQL statements.

## Next steps

> - Learn more usage of `mysqlclient` from [the documentation of mysqlclient](https://mysqlclient.readthedocs.io/)
> - Learn the best practices for TiDB application development with the chapters in the [Developer Guide](/develop/dev-guide-overview.md), such as: [Insert Data](/develop/dev-guide-insert-data.md), [Update Data](/develop/dev-guide-update-data.md), [Delete Data](/develop/dev-guide-delete-data.md), [Single Table Reading](/develop/dev-guide-get-data-from-single-table.md), [Transactions](/develop/dev-guide-transaction-overview.md), [SQL Performance Optimization](/develop/dev-guide-optimize-sql-overview.md), etc.
> - Learn through the professional [TiDB Developer Courses](https://www.pingcap.com/education/) and earn [TiDB certifications](https://www.pingcap.com/education/certification/) after passing the exam.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Learn more usage of `mysqlclient` from [the documentation of mysqlclient](https://mysqlclient.readthedocs.io/).
- Learn the best practices for TiDB application development with the chapters in the [Developer guide](/develop/dev-guide-overview.md), such as [Insert data](/develop/dev-guide-insert-data.md), [Update data](/develop/dev-guide-update-data.md), [Delete data](/develop/dev-guide-delete-data.md), [Single table reading](/develop/dev-guide-get-data-from-single-table.md), [Transactions](/develop/dev-guide-transaction-overview.md), and [SQL performance optimization](/develop/dev-guide-optimize-sql-overview.md).
- Learn through the professional [TiDB developer courses](https://www.pingcap.com/education/) and earn [TiDB certifications](https://www.pingcap.com/education/certification/) after passing the exam.
```

https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#etc

---

> title: Connect TiDB with mysqlclient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Connect to TiDB with mysqlclient
```

summary: Learn how to connect TiDB using mysqlclient. This tutorial gives Python sample code snippets that work with TiDB using mysqlclient.
---

> <!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->
> <!-- markdownlint-disable MD029 -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> # Connect TiDB with mysqlclient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Connect to TiDB with mysqlclient
```

            "UPDATE players SET goods = goods + %s, coins = coins + %s WHERE id = %s",
            (-amount, price, player_id),
        )
```

For more information, refer to [Update Data](/develop/dev-guide-update-data.md).

### Delete data

```python
with get_mysqlclient_connection(autocommit=True) as conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        player_id = "1"
        cursor.execute("DELETE FROM players WHERE id = %s", (player_id,))
```

For more information, refer to [Update Data](/develop/dev-guide-delete-data.md).

## Useful notes

### Using driver or ORM framework?

The Python driver provides low-level access to the database, but it also requires the developers to:

- Establish and release database connections manually.
- Manage database transactions manually.
- Map data rows (represented as tuples in the `mysqlclient`) to data objects manually.

Unless you need to write complex SQL statements, it is recommended to use [ORMs](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Object%E2%80%93relational_mapping) for developing. They can help you:

- Reduce [boilerplate code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boilerplate_code) for managing connections and transactions.

> - Manipulate data with data objects instead of an amount of SQL statements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Manipulate data with data objects instead of a number of SQL statements.
```

</div>
</SimpleTab>

### Step 4: Run the code and check the result

1. Execute the following command to run the sample code:

    ```shell
    python mysqlclient_example.py
    ```

> 2. Check the [Expected output.txt](https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-python-mysqlclient-quickstart/blob/main/Expected-Output.txt) to see if the output matches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Check the [Expected-Output.txt](https://github.com/tidb-samples/tidb-python-mysqlclient-quickstart/blob/main/Expected-Output.txt) to see if the output matches.
```
